2048 Game Documentation
Table of Contents
Introduction
Purpose
Features
Getting Started
Prerequisites
Installation
Running the Game
Game Overview
Rules of 2048
Controls
Code Structure
Main Modules
File Organization
Functionality
Game Initialization
Board Generation and Display
User Input Handling
Game Logic
Win and Lose Conditions
Future Improvements
Contributing
License
1. Introduction
Purpose
The purpose of this project is to implement the classic 2048 game in Python. The game provides an engaging puzzle-solving experience where players slide numbered tiles on a grid to combine them and reach the tile with the value of 2048.

Features
Command-line based gameplay.
Colorful display of tiles.
Automatic saving of game state.
High score tracking.
2. Getting Started
Prerequisites
Python 3.x installed.
Basic understanding of Python programming concepts.
Installation
Clone the repository: git clone https://github.com/yourusername/2048-game.git
Navigate to the project directory: cd 2048-game
Install dependencies: pip install colorama (if using Colorama for colored terminal output)
Running the Game
Open a terminal window.
Navigate to the project directory.
Run the game: python main.py
3. Game Overview
Rules of 2048
The game is played on a 4x4 grid. Players use arrow keys to move tiles in one of four directions: up, down, left, or right. When two tiles with the same number collide while moving, they merge into a single tile with the sum of their values. The goal is to create a tile with the value of 2048.

Controls
Up: Move tiles upwards.
Down: Move tiles downwards.
Left: Move tiles to the left.
Right: Move tiles to the right.
Q: Quit the game.
4. Code Structure
Main Modules
main.py: Entry point of the game.
board.py: Contains the Board class responsible for managing the game grid.
tile.py: Defines the Tile class representing individual tiles on the board.
game_manager.py: Manages the game state, logic, and user interactions.
File Organization
css
Copy code
2048-game/
├── main.py
├── board.py
├── tile.py
└── game_manager.py
5. Functionality
Game Initialization
On starting the game, a new 4x4 grid is initialized with two random tiles (2 or 4).

Board Generation and Display
The Board class handles generating the grid and displaying it with colored tiles using the Colorama library.

User Input Handling
User inputs (arrow keys and 'Q' for quitting) are handled in the GameManager class.

Game Logic
The GameManager class manages the main game loop and enforces the rules of the 2048 game.

Win and Lose Conditions
The game checks for win and lose conditions after each move. The player wins when they achieve a 2048 tile. The player loses if there are no valid moves left.

6. Future Improvements
Implement a graphical user interface (GUI) using a library like Pygame or Tkinter.
Add sound effects and animations for a more engaging experience.
Implement an AI player using algorithms like the Minimax algorithm or expectimax to play the game automatically.
7. Contributing
Contributions to this project are welcome. If you find any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please create a pull request or issue on the GitHub repository.

8. License
This project is licensed under the MIT License